The notion that musicality can be measured goes back nearly a century with Carl Seashore’s Tests of Musical Ability first published in 1919. The idea went that an individual could take a couple of tests and then based on their performance they were given a score that reflected some degree of their musical ability. In the almost 100 years since Seashore’s tests, the logic behind measuring musicality has become more sophisticated, but the goal has remained the same: assign a number to something we believes exists, but can’t measure directly. These numbers are sometimes convenient when they help delineate between the 'musician' and the 'non-musician' and serve as an approximation for what is meant when people make statements like 'She is more musical than him'. In some ways, modeling musicality mathematically is just a formalization of these intuitions. The problem is that the idea of musicality falls apart when it becomes dissected. In its most common form, musicality is generally thought of as some sort of internal resource that individuals are deemed to have some degree of via nature or nurture. More often than not the non-expert might claim that they are 'not musical enough' to 'get' certain music. As if what there is to 'get' can only be accessed via countless hours of musical training. Does someone have to be musical in order to be a good listener? How musical does one have to be in order to 'get' it? 
This paper investigates the idea of measuring musicality by surveying its history, current state, aims, and goals. Parallels are made to current work in intelligence research and this paper suggests that music psychology may not only face similar problems in terms of treating musicality as a monolithic internal resource as measured by a few numbers, but the idea of doing so actually does harm to research, as well as the general public in terms of audience accessibility and engagement. This paper argues that the music community should work towards dispelling the myth of musicality and move towards a way of thinking about music perception and appreciation as a collection of related, though not unified processes. Drawing on work inspired by current thinking in cognitive psychology, this paper demonstrates that conceptualizing the multiple aspects of musicality in a modular way is beneficial to both the research community and general public. 
